and so really the idea here is to  involve you guys to  give me the accountability the  accountability partner that i would have  if i was going to the gym or if i was  checking in with every week to make sure  i'm on track  plus there is the uh  there is the public shame aspect of this  that i think will motivate me greatly  what happened to mjr's weight loss  he still looks the same as he did  when he made that video  now more than one year ago  i'd say that's a generous comment from  the audience looking at this photograph  here  i'd estimate he's well over  280 pounds  not only has his diet failed him  but he has in fact been gaining weight a  well-intentioned member of the audience  says  in his most recent video he looks bigger  than ever as someone who's lost over 80  pounds the past two years  i know it's not easy  that being said i feel relying on other  people to hold you accountable for your  success is an absolute recipe for  disaster it may sound like a good idea  but usually it just adds a bunch of  unnecessary pressure well i've got good  news and i've got bad news he made that  promise  to upload a weekly update as to how much  weight he lost  and how much exercise he was doing  the last time he even attempted to hold  himself to that standard  was july 20th  2021  so whether that was a good idea or a bad  one  he gave up on it  and perhaps  he gave up  on himself  that's a topic for a video  [Music]  now you might remember that last august  i made a video where i was talking about  how i was fat  and i was really excited to start losing  some weight i was going to use the ring  fit adventure on the switch i was gonna  be riding my bike and i was gonna be  using the apple watch to track  my motions and my workouts and things  like that and i was pumped to do it  and as you can see  it didn't go quite as planned  [Music]  man yeah i kind of let myself go a  little bit but  over the last couple months i've made a  conscious decision to try to lose some  weight now what's funny is that i have  spent my entire adult life sitting in  front of a computer whether it's support  or help desk or answering emails  troubleshooting things editing audio  editing video when you do that basically  the hours slip by and pretty soon you  are just a zombie sitting at your desk  and so yeah i've got a lot of excuses  but  the truth is that i really need to lose  some weight so i've been thinking about  it for  for a couple weeks now and i need to  make a change and i'm reaching out to  you guys because i think i've got an  interesting idea because you know  listen it's all my fault you know i  i'm just lacking the motivation and the  inspiration to do it and i feel like  i've let a lot of you down a lot of you  have asked about it uh brought it up in  the comments and  i've let let myself down you know most  importantly  [Music]  so if you go to  metaljesusrocks.com you will see the  the top post in the blog section right  there is going to be sharing my current  weight  as well as how i'm doing with the  fitness app on my my watch and my phone  just how much i'm standing how much i'm  moving and how much i'm working out and  i'm going to publish that once a week on  my website starting today  [Music]  it's really easy to trick yourself into  thinking  that because something is normal it's  easy  and that because something is normal  because it's commonly done by millions  of people in society around you  that at any time you can flip a switch  and you can join the pack you can have  all the benefits of being one of those  normal people  reciprocal with this  it's so easy  to tell yourself  that just because you do something  unusual just because you do something  exceptional  that it's therefore  special  that it's what makes  you special  that it's part of  your identity that makes you different  from and frankly  better than  other people  it's completely obvious  that if jesus wants to lose weight  he has to quit  playing video games  if he quits  even just for one year  if he quits playing video games if he  made a youtube video announcing that  he's not going to press a single button  on a single controller until he has lost  60 pounds  who is he  when he looks in the mirror  who is he now that he is no longer the  world's greatest  video game collector  video game reviewer  video game  historian when he takes a step away from  the mirror and he opens up his phone  to send text messages back and forth to  other people  who is he in relation  to his friends  what do they know him as  why do they know him  why did they respect him what do they  like about him what do they talk to him  about video games  it's all  video games video games aren't just  something that he plays  not just something that he does  it's become  part of who he is  and clearly  it's a huge part of the way in which he  feels  that he is special  that he's different  from other people  going to the gym  and doing push-ups oh that's normal  anybody can do that  you see how easy it is to convince  yourself that therefore it would be easy  for you  that it'd be easy for you  to develop those virtues to develop that  self-discipline  that experience  and then you find out  that it's not easy that all those people  you've been kind of dismissing and  denigrating and looking down on for  doing something normal mainstream  comment something anyone could do  millions of people can do actually if  you stop and think  about how many hours  they put into fitness over how many  years and i'm not talking about olympic  athletes here i'm talking about the  average middle-aged man  who just cares about his health who just  stays in shape the number of hours he's  put into  learning  about diet and exercise and then living  with that  discipline  the number of hours per week  week after week  all that preparation  that's what makes it easy for him  now  to go to the gym and do the push-ups and  the absence of that  that's what makes it so hard that's what  makes it pot impossible  for you  jesus you're dealing with the deficit  created in your life  by the hundreds of hours by the  thousands of hours that you spent  instead  playing video games and i see this same  pattern play out  again and again  with these young men who call themselves  incels but without exception what they  are  video game addicts they are video game  addicts  who felt that  having a girlfriend or having a wife was  normal that was something everyone was  entitled to that was something easy  right getting to level 99 in runescape  that was what made them special spending  all these hours playing video games  spending all these hours watching  japanese cartoons anime or whatever oh  this is their hobby this is their  passion this is what makes them special  and it's rare but once in a while you  get an incel who was actually highly  motivated to go into the sciences  get a phd in chemistry or something  right and they felt like oh now that  they were accomplished this way like  maybe it's not something as laughable as  level 99 and runescape now that they  have a phd in chemistry now they're  entitled to having a girlfriend they're  entitled to having a wife and they're  embittered  that they don't get these things they  feel  entitled to right oh yeah yeah that's  normal that's common therefore it's easy  you think it's easy for other people and  you think it should  be easy for you but you're wrong  and you're wrong in the same way doing  200 push-ups  for me  today  is easy because i've done it  thousands of times before because of all  the hours i've put in at the gym over  decades before therefore it's easy for  me now and therefore even if i'm injured  even if i have a car accident then i  have to recover right getting back into  doing 200 push-ups a day oh yeah yeah  it's easy  for me sharing my life with a woman  doing the dishes together talking to her  about  all the frustrations and disappointments  in her life  really sharing my life with a woman  in a tiny apartment like that  all right we're not talking about the  manual skill of washing dishes all right  man and woman living together in that  way okay it's a skill  and it's a skill i built up over years  of suffering suffering and sorrow that  you pour into  one relationship after another and yet  in a sense you build up that  relationship right but you're building  up yourself even if it's just your  capacity to listen it's your capacity to  feel it's your capacity to cooperate in  this way and there's there's a lot of  tears there's a lot of screaming a lot  of weeping right it's all this stuff  that goes into it it's like you know the  the sorrow and suffering that goes into  building up your physical fitness even  if you're not an athlete even if you  never went to the olympics right which  goes unseen and unappreciated by someone  like  jesus  in the same way right  it's only easy it's only effortless for  so-called normal people to have  so-called  normal relationships because of the  extraordinary  preparation they have because of the  extraordinary suffering and sorrow  they've already been through  now most perniciously of all i think  people feel entitled to be parents  people feel entitled to be good parents  they feel that they ought to be  respected and admired by their own  children  as good parents without ever putting in  really any thought  as to what it's going to take  to be a good parent without putting in  any kind of preparation and this may not  be the video game addict stereotype and  it may not be the phd in chemistry  stereotype although i've met a lot of  bad parents who fall into that category  i really have you know you can meet a  beautiful young woman and all she ever  did was put her effort into being a  beautiful young woman she put all her  time into her hair and her nails and her  makeup let's just say she even worked as  an esthetician she worked in a beauty  salon for the sake of it and how to wear  high heels and how to walk in high heels  all those skills that i recognize that's  a certain kind of skill set  and then she thinks one day she can  become a mother and she's going to be a  good mother and she's going to be a  great mother and she's going to be loved  and adored by her husband by her parents  and grandparents by her children and  grandchildren that there's going to be  all this  admiration and adoration directed her  way and she finds out too late that in  the same way that jesus here lacks  the skills the attitude the knowledge he  needs  frankly just to save his own life that  she has none  of the preparation she needs  to be a parent and just because it's  normal just because it's common  for people to be parents doesn't mean  it's going to be easy  for you  it's gonna be hard for you because of  all the thousands of hours you put into  playing video games instead of becoming  a person of substance and if it's not  video games maybe for this beautiful  young woman all the thousands of hours  you put into hanging out in a nightclub  doing hair nails and makeup  all the thousands of hours  you wasted making yourself into a  shallow brittle person instead of  someone who's really substantive who's  really profound and he's really robust  in dealing with the challenges of being  a parent i've got to tell you something  it's not only the child  that breaks down  weeping  in that intimate context under those  pressures parenting  is hard  what people think  is normal  is  hard it takes extraordinary sacrifice  extraordinary self-discipline  extraordinary preparation  and it's the people who've been through  that who then have the luxury  of laughing about it  of taking it utterly  for granted  hi  my name is dan i'm a video gaming addict  [Applause]  [Music]  one of the biggest points of anxiety for  me over the last 10 to 15 years  has been that i've never  had a girlfriend and i've never really  had many friends  but i feel like coming from a dual  parent alcoholic household  i had no real connection with my parents  you couldn't really talk to them  every day they come home from work  it was just go and get the  captain morgan rum and get the diet coke  and mix them together and  drink until you're drunk every single  day  [Music]  and when i go to school it was like  i mean a lot of people were on drugs and  even i remember my best friend in grade  school  he told me he was using meth and this  was in grade school  i turned towards video games because i  saw these behaviors models around me  that were destructive  and  i looked at video games as being  a lesser evil than drugs alcohol  and just going around having sex with  random people  i grew up around kind of crazy hood  environment just alcohol drugs all that  type of stuff  and i never wanted to be a part of it  and i avoided it  but i feel like  as a result  [Music]  i never had those kind of foundational  experiences  socializing with other people  to be able to build upon it  to have relationships to  have friends  i suffered to some extent from anxiety  and maybe in some way it was my safe  space in the chaos of my life in these  times it was constant always available  and gave me a sense of accomplishment  i climbed through the ranks and achieved  max combat and had every single piece of  gear i could want  but it wasn't enough i sought the next  thing my new goal was to achieve 99  everything and get the prestigious max  cape the first time i seriously quit  putting video games was in 2016.  i saw that it was really dragging me  down and that i was getting older and  starting to fall behind in some areas of  my life  so after setting a goal in the video  game that i played at the time  of getting a max cape  and then achieving it i then quit  you know i'd wind up dropping out of  college four times and  blowing like 15 grand or so in the  process  you know of my own money i  i paid it off now but i mean it was just  a waste of money  life improved a lot for me in the next  few months i re-enrolled in a local  community college after dropping out  from a different college a few years  before  i was making good money all my bills  were paid i was having money in the bank  i felt like i was on top of the world  because things improved so much  i thought it was safe to go back to  video games  i thought that i was cured of my video  gaming addiction  big mistake i started playing about  10-12 hours a day  i bounced around between a few steam  games and minecraft  found my way back to runescape and then  i started playing 16 hours a day i wound  up dropping out of college in one  semester because it wasn't for me and  because my video game addiction made it  hard to do anything but play video games  since i dropped out and didn't have  school anymore i was able to live at my  grandparents and play video games all  day  so i did  during this time which continues to this  day i played up to 16 hours a day  everything from runescape minecraft gta  5 7 days to die terraria and a host of  other small games i started neglecting  my health again and my room was a  constant mess of stuff on the floor  you needed 99 agility just to make it  from the door to the bed in this room  my income went way down and i enjoy work  a commission job  and i was making one fifth about what i  was making previously i rarely took  showers and oftentimes didn't brush my  teeth i pretty much drank five cokes a  day ate breakfast and ate junk the rest  of the day playing runescape today i  woke up at 4pm and i played runescape  for 10 hours so far maybe 11 at this  point i'm trying to be honest with where  i'm at right now  and i think it  accurately represents  where i'm at  and all that being said i want this  channel to document me improving my life  and beating my video game addiction i  quit playing video games about 100 days  ago  i probably made my first video  probably  130 days ago or so  where i kind of showed that i was a  runescape video gaming addict and i was  at the time actively playing like i said  i haven't played 100 days now i set a  date several months out when i would  quit cold turkey  and follow through with it and here i am  four months later video game free  i recently wound up relapsing with my  video gaming addiction  long story short  a friend of mine recently got killed by  a drunk driver who was going the wrong  way down the road  get rid of your councils  get rid of anything that's going to make  you reliable a lot of people will  associate like oh but it costs money i  paid money for this your 300 xbox  is  the you run the risk of your 300 xbox  costing you thirty thousand dollars over  the course a year in lost wages lost  experiences which one's worse smashing  the 300 xbox or losing thirty thousand  dollars  in  lost wages and lost experiences in the  next year's time there's this sunk cost  fallacy where you you have so much time  invest into it so you think it's worth  something  but at the other side of the coin  there's  if you continue to keep it it's just  gonna continually  drag you down  to me video games are a disease of  complacency  i know that if i keep the video games in  my life  it's going to be a struggle to move  forward i see this with a lot of young  men a lot of those who have gone before  me and a lot of those who  are coming after me  they're playing all these video games  and  they're not quite doing their schoolwork  the way they should they're not quite as  ambitious as they  probably could be and  [Music]  it accumulates over time and  the rest of their life kind of suffers  from it i also want to make a disclaimer  that just because you have not played as  much as me doesn't mean you're not a  video gaming addict  in the same way that a two-pack a day  smoker doesn't think he's an addict  because he knows a three-pack a day  smoker or you could substitute that with  alcohol or drugs whatever  gambling you know whatever  once you formed an addiction to video  games at least in my experience it's  nearly impossible to stop  you may think you're good  you may think you got your life back on  track  and you may think you can self-regulate  i did but i couldn't and i realized that  now i thought i was cured of my video  gaming addiction  i wasn't and maybe i never will be  adhd and anxiety oftentimes i wonder how  these are interlinked i don't know which  one came first  i think a lot of my anxiety and adhd  mate or at least my anxiety  kind of came from my parents and my  upbringing  grew up in an attic household so that  always gave me a lot of anxiety growing  up because you never know what's going  to happen i got a lot of problems with  my family being my family are alcoholics  and  pretty severely so my father's got a  number of duis and i always worry about  all the stuff that goes along with that  and the drama  romantic  i'm not even going to worry too much  about that at the moment i've got to get  myself right before i can go back to  being in a relationship i do not want to  be like my parents i i do not want to be  complacent in life and  you know i want to live up to my full  potential  and i'm willing to sacrifice things  to be able to do that  i don't want to be 40 50 years old and  think man i could have done this i could  have done that but  i just did this impulsive stuff like  video games and alcohol and for a lot of  people that's it's insidious in the fact  that  it's a multiple of these things and it's  never quite bad enough to make the  change it's  you know i watched my parents  drinking over  all these years now and i just  i see the slow decline the slow  dimming  [Music]  of you know  once bright people  i made big changes to quit video games  to stay off  it made me very uncomfortable making  these youtube videos in the past and  still at the beginning makes me very  uncomfortable  it's embarrassing to make youtube videos  with your face and then talking about  your problems but guess what if i didn't  do it i'd probably still be playing  video games  [Music]